[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Welcome back, everyone,
to the Quest for the Cures
continues.
This is the 11th and final
episode of this docuseries.
I want to thank you for
tuning in these last 10 days,
and we've saved the best
for last because tonight,
we're going to learn the exact
protocols that several cancer
patients have used to treat
their cancer naturally.
And when I say they treat
their cancer naturally,
what they've really done is
they've provided their body
with what it needs so that
it functions properly so
that that immune system works.
And when the immune
system is working,
we know that cancer
is not an issue.
You're going to really
enjoy this show,
and you're going to really
benefit from this show,
you're going to learn
information that is vital,
and it might save your life
or the life of a loved one,
so grab a pen and paper
and enjoy the show.
I'll see you afterwards.
I am sitting here tonight in
Motown, Detroit, Michigan,
and I'm sitting with
a good friend of mine.
I've known Kevin Irish
for several years now,
and I'm honored to be
able to interview you
for the first time
tonight, Kevin.
Thanks for being with us.
>> Thank you, Ty.
It's my pleasure to be here.
>> So we're going
to get your story.
We're going to get your story
tonight of being diagnosed
with cancer, and the
treatments that you've used,
but first of all,
just tell everyone
that's watching here a
little bit about yourself.
Where'd you grow up?
What did you do?
What do you do now?
Tell us about Kevin Irish.
>> Up to about 5
and 1/2 years ago,
I was a senior design engineer
for the automotive business.
I designed a lot of car parts
and did a lot of analyzing
and stuff like that.
I'm also an artist and
I'm a published author.
>> Fantastic artist, by the way.
I've seen a lot of your artwork.
>> Thank you.
But ever since right
up until my diagnosis,
I had a pretty much normal
life just doing my thing
and working and
going about my life.
And that all changed
on January, 24, 2009.
I had noticed I had a
little back pain in 2008,
and I had just
taken up golf, and I
figured I just overdid it.
Now is in very good
shape prior to all this
until I noticed my left
eyelid started to droop.
That caused me concern.
I went and saw my doctor
on the 24th of January,
and the first thing he said is,
Kev, that's Horner's Syndrome.
He said that's a sign
of advanced lung cancer.
And that's when I first
heard my name and the word
cancer, advanced lung
cancer, in the same sentence.
>> Were you a
smoker before that?
>> Yes, I was, about a
pack and a half a day,
and so it's self-inflicted.
I didn't want any pity, but
nonetheless, we're human.
It was the only vise I
had, so now it's gone.
But the terror and the
fear were immediate,
and, yeah, I broke
down in tears.
And my doctor had ordered CAT
scans that were ordered stat.
He said, you're going to
go right to the hospital
and have this done.
Needless to say,
I was terrified,
and I cried the
whole time there.
So later that evening about
9 o'clock at night, my doctor
had called me at home,
and he said, Kev, he says,
it's stage 4 inoperable.
And I collapsed on my
kitchen floor and I cried.
But I got my composure
back real quick,
and I said, well, what do I do?
He said, Kev, we're
going to try and get you
as much time as possible.
He said, tomorrow
morning you're scheduled
to go in for a biopsy.
He said just be there and they
will take you the minute you
go in, and that's what I did.
>> So that's five years ago,
stage 4 inoperable lung cancer.
What was the prognosis
at that point?
What was the prognosis for--
you're five years out now.
>> Over five years.
>> OK, over five years, so
what was the prognosis for you
lasting five years
from that point?
>> The prognosis
from my research,
because the first thing I did
was I wanted to research what
was going on, and I looked at
one of the popular websites
that people go to you
for medical advice,
and I saw the
identical diagnosis.
Now, it's important
that people know
that each diagnosis
might be the same,
but it's different
on every patient.
>> Because every
patient is unique.
>> Exactly, and so was
their treatment plan.
But this website had said I
had a 5% chance of making it
five years.
>> 5%.
>> So much for that.
>> You're alive and
kicking five years later,
and you're really healthy.
Obviously, you're in good shape.
>> I've been working at it.
It's been a very, very
long, long hard road,
and I was single at the time,
and I did it all by myself.
>> What did you do?
What was the treatment
recommendations
by your oncologist?
I assume you went to a
traditional oncologist?
>> Well, my doctor, who I've
known for many years prior
to that, he took the ball,
and he made calls to radiology
oncology to chemotherapy
and to the thoracic surgeon,
he even called about
getting me health insurance,
because I didn't have any.
So I was afraid I was
going to die because I
couldn't afford the treatments.
He said don't worry about it.
And I didn't know anything
about alternative treatments.
I just was in shock, and
I didn't want to die.
So within just a few days,
I did have the biopsy,
and it came back stage 3A,
non-small cell carcinoma,
which is the good news.
Now when you have cancer,
how can it be good news?
Well, non-small cell cancer
moves very, very slowly.
>> Slower growing.
>> And what I was told was
is that the tumor I had I had
for approximately two
years, and it was massive.
It was 5 and 1/2 centimeters
by 4 centimeters,
and it was lying on
the outside of my lung.
It was called a Pancoast tumor,
and it was growing in directly
into my spinal column, which
is right next to my heart,
and it was just wreaking havoc.
So stage 3A lung
cancer is bad enough,
the treatments, because I've
lost relatives to cancer,
I know what they
went through, and I
saw what they went through.
So of course, I was terrified.
The following Monday,
I went in and I
had a surgical port
put into my chest
because I was going
to be receiving
massive amounts of
chemo, and I was going
to be getting double dosed.
I would have a 6 and 1/2 hour
infusion five days a week
followed by 15 minute
session with the radiation.
That was murder.
That was the most terrifying
thing in the world
to be sitting in a room having
this poison pumped into me,
and I could feel it from
the very first infusion.
And within two or three
days, I started losing hair,
and I was losing
weight like crazy.
I couldn't eat.
Just the whole myriad
of the horror stories
you hear about
chemo, they're true.
>> You had chemical poisoning.
>> Big time.
And it was the worst thing ever.
I honestly wouldn't wish
this on my worst enemy.
I can't tell you how bad it was.
There were-- all
through it, because I
know the stories of chemo,
the majority of cancer deaths
isn't from cancer
killing patients.
It's the chemo.
I would go to bed
at night, and I
didn't know if I was going
to wake up in the morning.
Post-operative chemo lasted
for another three months,
and in that time, I
started investigating
alternative treatments,
and I was blown away.
Absolutely blown away
that natural substances
that come out of our planet
can cure and prevent cancer.
That's when I started
really going nuts.
>> So when you went nuts, and
you learned about these natural
treatments, which ones caught
your eye and which ones did you
eventually implement in
your own treatment protocol?
>> Well, actually, I
have implemented several,
and these are all prevention
because I am cancer free,
and I'm going to keep that way.
And I'm going to keep anyone
that I talk to cancer free,
and I've talked to a
lot of cancer patients
and a lot of
survivors since then.
The first one that I came
across with vitamin B-17, which
was known as Laetrile back
in the late 60s and 70s,
and then it disappeared for some
political reason, we'll say,
but it was a derivative
from apricot pits.
It's the most natural
thing you can think of,
but an apricot pit
that cures cancer?
And helps maintain and
regulate blood pressure,
and it has a natural
pain reliever in it?
I'm down with that.
My dad at 95-years-old, he
had three nasty skin tumors
on his back.
My doctor identified
them as basal carcinoma.
His treating doctor
had an ointment
put on there, which
made the tumors bleed.
She said stop using it for
a week and try it again.
Soon as he did, they
started bleeding.
Then she put him on
a purified Vaseline,
which has absolutely
no medicinal use
except for keeping
the tumors moist.
I said, Dad, that's nonsense.
So I got him B-17
100 milligram tabs.
I got him 2000 IUs D3, and
I put him on that regimen.
And in six weeks, I
looked at his back,
and instead of putting
the ointment on there,
I took pictures because there
was nice, pink healthy scar
tissue where each one
of his tumors was.
And what got me so big on the D3
was the following year, January
of 2010, following treatment,
I needed to get out of town.
So I visited my best friend out
in Arizona to do some golfing.
Before I left, I
saw it on the news.
It was here in
southeast Michigan.
I don't know what hospital it
was, but in a hospital setting,
a woman had stage
3 breast cancer.
She was being treated with
massive doses of vitamin
D3 in a hospital setting.
Her tumors reduced by 50%
in 10 days and no harm
to the rest of her body.
I was sold.
And further research found
even more amazing news
regarding cannabis
and CBD, cannabidiol.
There was a woman who had
stage 3B cancer, lung cancer,
a little bit worse than
mine, and it's documented.
She was out of San
Francisco General,
and her oncologist has
been there for 25 years.
I don't recall his
name, but the crux of it
was she was facing
to lobectomies.
Three super enlarged
lymph nodes.
She was cancer ridden,
and this is the fun part.
She was taking CBD
oil, just little
tiny amounts in a
capsule every day
for the first 3 and 1/2 months.
Same protocol I went under,
the chemo and the radiation.
At the end of it,
they did the CT scan
to see if surgery was viable.
Here's where it gets
real fun, the surgeons
called her up and said
we need to come in.
You need to have the surgery.
Something's going on in there.
We need to find out what it is.
They opened her
up, and they found
that the cancer on one
lung was just scar tissue.
They left that lung alone.
The three super enlarged
lymph nodes were necrotic.
They were dead.
They were eating themselves,
and all the tissue around them
was healthy.
Here's the fun part.
The main tumor on her other
lung, it was necrotic.
It was eating itself to nothing.
They took out about a little
larger than a golf ball
size out of her lung, and
they removed those three lymph
nodes, and that's all they
did to her, and she's fine.
They interviewed her doctor
immediately after there,
and he said, this is amazing.
He had other patients going
through the same treatment.
They didn't have those results.
>> That was the only
difference was the CBD oil?
>> The only variable
was the CBD oil.
This stuff has been proven to
not only cure cancer, but also
eliminate epileptic
seizures by 99%.
It's written down.
It's documented.
Two years ago, the front page of
our Detroit News, the youngest
Michigan medical marijuana
patient was epileptic.
He was taking CBD oil.
His seizures were reduced by
99% in severity and frequency.
Another case of a little
5-year-old girl, and this
is what really breaks
a person's heart,
she had over 300 seizures a day.
They were terrible.
She was always wearing headgear.
She couldn't go out.
She was always bruised, and she
was always doped up to the max.
Her parents are tired of that.
They went to Colorado.
They got CBD oil for her.
Within the first few days
her symptoms were gone.
She'd had maybe one or
two seizures a week,
and she could go-- a year
later they did a follow up,
she was outside
playing, laughing,
she didn't wear the
headgear, didn't
have to take all this stuff.
She was a normal
little 6-year-old girl,
and it made you cry to see that
a simple little extract could
give this girl her life back.
It's just amazing.
>> So tell me-- kind of
summarize your protocol.
So you went through a
couple of rounds of chemo,
you talked about how they made
you feel like you're going
to die from the treatment.
>> Absolutely.
>> But so tell me what kind of--
itemize your treatment protocol
that you used once you said,
I'm not doing these
toxic treatments anymore.
I'm going to go back to nature.
What did that treatment protocol
look like to you personally?
>> To me, that meant getting
away from anything that has
additives, preservatives,
anything that's artificial.
I went back to more natural
food, more homegrown
food, nothing with GMOs.
And I had to start getting
myself back together.
There was a huge physical
and psychological damage
that happens from having
advanced stage cancer,
but I wasn't going to sit
there in a chair and veg,
and say, woe is me.
Cancer retired
me, but that's OK.
Because I'm above ground,
and I'm still here.
And now it's my mission.
I've always liked to be
a little helper monkey.
I like to do snow
blowing for my seniors
and just help people out, but
now I've got a bigger mission.
I beat cancer.
I beat late stage
cancer, so that means
other people can beat it too.
>> You've written a book.
I want you to talk
about it briefly.
>> This is my book.
"I'm Still Here, A
Cancer Survivor Story."
It's available on Barnes
Noble, amazon.com,
and a whole other
online book resellers.
And $5 for every
book sold online
goes into my charity, which
is called Kev's Cause.
And last year, I was
able to raise $900
and I gave this money
to my oncologist,
who gave it to patients who
were having financial problems.
But the book was basically
what my cancer was.
It was the story you just heard.
How I got through it.
Some of the cruel things that
happen to people afterwards.
But again, living a better life
is the best revenge, you know?
Yeah.
Cancer got me.
It almost killed me.
My revenge against cancer
is living a better life,
and help other people
do the same thing,
and that's my reward.
That's where I get my kicks.
>> Final question.
If you had one thing to
tell cancer patients, one
word of encouragement, one
word of advice to them,
what would it be?
Because you've got a
big audience right now.
We've got tens of
thousands, potentially
hundreds of thousands,
of people watching.
>> The first thing I would
tell them is never give up.
Don't ever quit, and
remember the cancer
doesn't have to be
a death sentence.
I'm living proof.
>> Tell me what
happened in 2005.
>> In 2005, I found a
lump under my left breast,
and it scared me.
You know, we're told to
do breast exams while we
were in the shower, and I felt
it, and I went to the doctors.
And when I was seen
in the examining room,
and the doctor
felt for the lump,
he said, well, you
have cystic breasts.
And I said, but
this is different.
This one is getting a little
bit bigger, and it's harder.
And he said, well, you
know, I think your concern
is a little bit too much.
You don't need to be
worrying about this.
It's probably caffeine.
You just need to cut
back on caffeine.
And I said, I only have
a cup a day of coffee.
I said, can we just biopsy it
and test it and see what it is
or something?
He goes, well, you
have cystic breasts.
I'd have to biopsy
both breasts, and you'd
look like Swiss cheese.
I'm not going to do it.
So I left feeling
really embarrassed.
Almost exactly a
year later, it was
the size of like I
said a Martini olive,
and I went in and waited.
They did biopsy it,
and I got the news.
And I got the phone
call, and they
said to bring a support person.
They wanted to
come in and to have
me talk to the doctor
personally face to face.
They said to bring someone
with me for support,
and I just knew, and
it was a long drive.
So when I got there, there
was no one in the office
except a nurse and
a doctor, and I knew
that there was something wrong.
He handed me a bottle of water.
It had a pink label
on it, a ribbon.
And I could already start
feeling the blood leaving,
draining to my feet.
I just didn't feel good, and
they told me it was cancer.
I had breast cancer,
and they immediately
sent me to another doctor.
And it was dark.
It was nighttime, and
I didn't understand.
I said, well, can I
make an appointment?
They said, no, we
called him for you.
He's waiting for you.
So in that aspect, I really
appreciated the urgency
of rushing and getting
me to the next doctor.
Went there, and he
said, you're going
to have to go and
get a lumpectomy,
and pretty much this
is when everything
started to change in my life.
So they wanted three types of
chemotherapy, two intravenous
through a port, one by mouth.
It was an estrogen
positive cancer,
and bilateral mastectomy
and radiation.
And I needed to hurry.
There was a sense of urgency.
So my sister was with me
and my boyfriend at the time
was with me.
So I went ahead
with the mastectomy,
and I had remembered what
my grandmother looked
like when she was
doing chemotherapy,
and she lost a lot of weight.
And I was terrified,
and I just didn't
want to go through what she went
through losing all that weight
and dying eventually.
>> It sounds like they just
threw almost everything,
including the kitchen sink,
at you as far as recommended
treatments.
>> They did.
And I was in a hospital where
I saw patients in the waiting
room and they were missing
hair, they were wearing scarves.
They looked like they were
from a concentration camp.
It was terrifying.
>> You mentioned that they gave
you a bottle of water with pink
on it.
Was it during breast
cancer awareness month?
Was it during October?
>> Yes.
Yes, it was absolutely
during October, breast cancer
awareness month, and they
gave me-- everything was pink.
The pamphlets were pink.
The wig book was
pink, so I could
start looking at
wigs ahead of time,
preparing me to lose my hair.
Even the scarves, if
I didn't want wigs,
it was all these
information packets.
They gave me a bag
with a bunch of stuff
in it, support groups,
pamphlets, everything.
So when I got through
with the mastectomy,
that's when they
were able to tell me
by taking the lymph
nodes out that it
had gotten into my lymph
nodes, and it was stage 3.
So they needed me
to do everything,
and they needed
me to do it fast.
Well, I got staph
infection from the surgery,
and this bought
me time, and this
is when I started researching.
I did go through
with the mastectomy.
I had my family saying
just do it, just do it,
and that part I regret, and
I've got my own reason why.
I don't know if it's
something that's
been scientifically researched,
it's just my own common sense.
Shannonite common sense,
but I got cancer again.
I never got that
vitamin D checked out,
and I never got to address it.
And when you've got that
vitamin D deficiency,
you're still at risk.
So I feel if I had left
that mastectomy out
and hadn't done it, that
cancer would have had a harder
time getting to my ribs
and getting to my lungs,
and I could have just
had a better chance.
Plus the scar tissue,
they're finding
research that says scar
tissue can cause cancer.
You know, I read that
in January of 2014.
So If I had to do
it all over again,
I wouldn't have
done that surgery.
>> Now you talked about getting
to your ribs and your lungs.
So are you saying that
eventually the cancer
spread to other organs?
>> Yeah.
>> Talk about that.
>> I went through that nightmare
of getting diagnosed with it
again.
I had a recurrence in
July, same month, of 2010.
It had spread into my
lungs and my lymph nodes.
We have other lymph
nodes around this area,
so it was underneath my collar
bone, in the bone, my ribs,
behind my trachea, and the
doctor told my family--
we were all sitting
in infusion chairs.
We had an early appointment.
My best friend flew out,
and we had two appointments.
I had to meet with a
radiation oncologist,
and with my regular doctor.
He was wonderful.
Very kind through everything.
Told me, when asked, how
long does she have to live,
everyone was concerned.
And he said, well, if
she does treatment,
you know, maybe a
little bit longer,
but if she doesn't, you
know, three months, a year.
It's an aggressive cancer.
>> So it was not an encouraging
prognosis at that point?
>> No, it was terrifying.
And he wanted me
to start treatment.
He was encouraging me to be
sensible this time around.
Be sensible.
>> What exactly does that mean?
What did that mean
according to him?
What was being sensible?
>> Being sensible-- the
first time when we met,
he said that getting vitamin
C and doing these other things
was like going to his words
exactly the sunshine farm,
he laughed.
He laughed.
And that's OK.
I understand that
they're not learning
about this in medical
school, so it probably
is pretty funny to them.
But I told him I didn't
even want the tamoxifen,
and I'm still not on it,
and I've been in remission
2 and 1/2 years.
So I allowed
radiation on one area
because he did say that
this was so aggressive it
was going to paralyze me.
So let's try to shrink this,
because that's not a good thing
to happen either.
Let's try to shrink this.
I made it through 22 rounds,
and I couldn't complete it.
I ended up with staph
infection, pneumonia.
So it got worse, my
cancer got worse,
and after we quit the
radiation, it was really sad.
That's when he said,
you know, unless I
do one of the treatments
he's recommending,
there's nothing else he
can do, and it's spreading.
So I went to the beach
that day, and that's
when Angels for Shannon
came into my mind.
I wanted to live.
I wanted other patients.
I wanted to do the
healthier treatments,
and I wanted other patients
to have that opportunity.
I prayed to God to
let me live, and let
me beat this the natural way.
>> So, Shannon, tell us about
the natural treatments that you
pursued.
>> There's a list.
So I'm going to let you
know what they were.
It was high dose
vitamin C intravenous.
It was Laetrile, intravenous.
It was ozone therapy.
It was dendritic cell therapy.
It was dendritic
cell cancer vaccine
made with your own blood.
It was hypothermia.
It was hyperbaric chamber.
It was treatments that are going
to boost your immune system,
the thymus gland.
Magnetic therapy.
Biofeedback.
We've all heard of rife.
There's Essiac, which I did
with my friend Cindy Jones.
Quantum physics is big.
We all need to be
taking a look at that.
We have energy within our
body, and we can't ignore that,
and we need to balance that too.
So it's a compilation of things,
and it was a very comprehensive
treatment program that I did.
I got my treatment
in February of 2011,
and I was symptom free--
you know when it's at--
it had infiltrated
my air passages,
and that's like a knife.
So I was symptom free
in August, late August,
and I got it confirmed
with a PET scan in October.
So I can say it took six months.
I know when my body's healthy.
>> What did your oncologist
say when he saw the new scans,
the new results?
>> He was very happy, and he
asked my permission to have
my medical records to take
to show to his colleagues.
And, of course, I
said, yeah, take them.
He was very happy.
He said, I wish I had done
some treatment on you,
so I could take the credit,
but he was being silly.
He's a good man.
>> Sounds like a good man.
>> Yeah.
I like him.
I can't wait to show him when
I'm in three years remission,
so I can walk in there.
>> Yeah.
>> Give him a hug.
>> Now, you mentioned stage 4,
did the cancer eventually was
stage 4?
>> Yeah.
>> OK.
>> Stage 4.
It was scary.
My family was preparing
for me to die.
My kids were crying,
calling me scared.
Not my son.
He's a tough paramedic,
but my daughter was.
>> She's not crying anymore.
>> No.
And both my kids
definitely believe now,
which makes me feel
good because I want them
to know there is another way.
This is not a time to be afraid.
I'm not afraid of
cancer anymore.
>> I'm really happy today to be
here in front of the Hollywood
Hills out here in the
background with Kev Murray.
Kev is a cancer survivor,
and today, we're
going to get his story.
So, Kev, thank you for
being with us here today.
>> Pleasure to be here.
>> So let me start with this.
Eight years ago,
you were in college
in San Antonio, Texas,
real close to where I live,
and so take it away from there.
You're feeling kind
of odd, something's
going on in your body, and
what happened eight years?
>> Right.
I knew something was going on.
The symptoms were pretty
obvious, because I had a--
you know, the tumor
was about that big.
Maybe a little less than
that, about that big, and it
was testicular cancer.
So as you can imagine, the
signs were pretty obvious.
But I didn't know
what to expect.
I was in-- you could say
I was in denial about it.
I never expected cancer.
>> Well, I mean, you were
in college at the time.
You were in in college.
How old were you?
>> I was 22.
>> You were 22, so you don't
expect testicular cancer at 22.
All right, so you've got tumors,
testicular cancer, so what
happened from St. Mary's
there in San Antonio?
>> Well, I quickly
went into surgery.
Within a few days, I
had the tumor removed.
And it was diagnosed as terminal
testicular cancer, which
means it had metastasized.
I had three tumors
in my abdomen.
They wanted to split
me open from chest
to navel, remove any infected
lymph nodes, and also douse me,
so to speak, with
chemo and radiation.
And they said that would
be successful treatment.
>> But you said that it
was diagnosed as terminal,
which means they said, you
don't do any treatment,
they give you how many
months, years to live?
>> Right.
They gave me six months to live.
>> Which is a pretty big slap
in the face when you're 22.
>> Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, it's ultimately
a death sentence.
I found out secondhand
years later,
about three years after, that
they gave me that six months.
>> But you didn't
know at that point?
>> I didn't know at that time.
>> So then they wanted
to douse you with chemo,
they wanted to do radiation,
they'd removed some
of the tumors with surgery.
So what protocol did
you use at that point?
You're 22 years old, diagnosed
with terminal testicular
cancer.
>> Right.
Well, immediately, I flew
back to South Carolina
where my mother lives, and got
involved with the hospitals
and everything.
I had the scan card for
chemo and everything.
I was totally lined up to do it.
And I just I believe
I had a dream,
or I think it was really
a vision of an angel,
and she just told me everything
was going to be fine.
But I felt totally against chemo
and radiation, so what I did,
I went with the
Gerson therapy, which
is based out of San Diego,
the Institute, the Gerson
Institute.
>> What are the particulars
of the Gerson therapy?
The protocol that you used?
As opposed to chemo or
radiation, you chose Gerson.
>> Right.
What other?
>> What are the particulars
of the Gerson therapy?
>> Oh, I see.
OK.
It's 12 to 13 juices
a day, one every hour.
>> So you're talking about
not juice off the shelves,
but you actually juice
vegetables and fruits
and whatnot, right?
So it's fresh juice.
>> Exactly.
It has to be fresh.
It has to be organic.
I only used organic
fresh carrots.
There's essentially carrot
and Granny Smith apple juice.
It's approximately half
of them, the other half
are green vegetable
juice with Granny Smith.
And they have certain
vegetables that--
certain greens that are
expected to be used.
>> So you said 12
to 13 times a day.
So what are you
juicing once an hour?
>> Once an hour starting around
7:00 or 8:00 in the morning.
>> OK.
That's almost a full
time job sometimes.
>> It is.
Yeah.
You feel like-- at
least I felt like I
was chained to the juicer.
The first two years, the first
one and a half to two years,
you don't really go outside
the house very much.
Because you've got to be
constantly there and resting.
Rest is very important.
Around a year and a half,
I started to play tennis
because I was very active.
It was hard for me to
rest for that long.
>> You look like an athlete.
>> Yeah.
Thank you.
I'm currently training
for a triathlon.
But, yeah, I'm used to playing
basketball, baseball, tennis,
swimming, all that, so
after a year and a half,
I started to introduce
that to the protocol.
>> So you've got juicing
12, 13 times a day.
What are the other components
of the Gerson therapy?
>> Very good question.
It's essentially in the
first year and a half,
it's three organic vegan meals,
a lot of essentially for lunch
and dinner, it's salad.
Organic salad, organic hypocrity
soup, and then essentially,
there's a whole menu
of items you can cook,
but it's a lot of intake,
a lot of caloric intake.
>> Yeah, it sure seems like it.
You're juicing 12
times plus 3 meals?
>> Uh-huh.
>> So you're saying all kinds
of good nutrients to fuel
your body.
>> Right.
>> All right.
So what else is part
of the Gerson therapy?
>> Well, the morning, of
course, is organic oatmeal,
slow cooked organic oatmeal.
So that's important.
Apart from that,
the coffee enema
is very important,
because all the juicing,
all the healthy eating
breaks down cancer toxins,
breaks down tumors,
breaks down cancer cells.
Well, it essentially,
when it's broken down
it goes to the liver most
of it, and when that happens
there's a danger
of developing, I
believe it's called
a liver coma.
It's just too much
for the liver.
>> It shuts down, sure.
>> Right.
And so that's where the
coffee enema comes in.
The coffee enema
essentially stimulates
bile ducts of the liver
to excrete the toxins.
So without that,
as you can imagine,
when there's a heavy tumor
load, such as in my case,
it's hard to imagine how
that would be excreted
without it when you're
just constantly breaking it
down and breaking it down.
And part of the
process of healing
is a healing reaction,
also called a flare up,
where it feels like
you're getting worse,
maybe it looks like
you're getting worse.
And the process
is could be fever,
could be a lot of things.
There are a lot of
signs of it, but it's
very important for the, as
I call it a Gerson thriver,
it's very important
for a Gerson thriver
to understand the signs
of these flare ups,
so that they don't go running
to conventional treatment.
That's not good for the body.
>> How did you feel when
you were going through this?
You're going through a
year and a half of juicing,
you feel like you're
chained to the juicer,
but on the flip
side of the coin,
people are going through
chemo and radiation.
They may be throwing up
for a year and a half.
I mean I'd say that even though
you're chained to the juicer,
how are you feeling overall
as far as your health is
concerned?
>> Yeah.
You know, even though
I say that it's
like being chained to a juicer,
it's complete gratitude.
Complete gratitude,
because there's nowhere I
would rather be than to
be chained to a juicer.
And really, I felt better than
I've ever felt internally.
It's just glowing.
It's just a glowing wellness.
To be blessed to be able to
consume that many juices,
you know especially organic
juices, it's really a blessing.
I like to juice every
day, and today, that
consists of organic carrots,
organic spinach, kale,
and chard.
And I like to drink about a
30 ounce of that every day.
You know, dealing with cancer,
it's similar to diabetes,
I believe, in that
it's a constant.
You've got to
constantly be surveying
what you're eating, what
you're putting in your body
so that you stay healthy.
My message is that, eight
years out, the body of evidence
is there.
The body of evidence.
>> Right.
>> And the verdict is in, the
Gerson therapy heals cancer.
>> Clearly, it has worked well.
What would be your
message to cancer patients
that are watching this?
What is your message
to them about being
diagnosed with cancer?
So often, you'll hear from an
oncologist, you're terminal.
You know, get your
affairs in order.
What's your message
to cancer patients?
>> I would say if you're
given that diagnosis,
that it is an opinion.
It's an opinion from
someone who has been trained
in cancer terminology,
cancer as they know it,
but not to be swayed.
Not to be swayed
in that direction
because that whole
system is a failure.
Anyone dying of
cancer is a failure.
That should not have.
>> Well, I was 26.
OK, so I was a newlywed,
been married two years,
I was working in the
real estate business,
buying rental property
and renovating houses,
and I'd been doing that
just a couple of years.
So I really had just kind
of felt like I was just
being an adult. You know I mean?
Like out of college
a couple of years,
working, newlywed, and I
started having abdominal pain.
>> And this was what year?
>> This was 2003.
>> OK.
>> And I thought I had an ulcer.
I'd never had any illness
before, never had any major--
the flu when I was a kid or
something, but nothing major.
And I thought, I don't
know, is just an ulcer?
Like what's going on?
And I had this pain
that would come and go,
and it was kind of
like Groundhog Day,
because every morning
I would wake up,
and I'd immediately think
like, how do I feel?
And I'd be like, I feel good.
OK, no pain.
And then I'd go
throughout the day,
but then I would get these
twinges of pain most days,
and I'd be like, oh,
there it is again.
And then I'd go to sleep
kind of worried about it,
and then I'd wake up,
well, no pain, right?
And so that kind of
went on for many months,
and I kept thinking
maybe my body
would get better because my body
had always healed in the past,
and I believe that the
body is designed to heal.
But the problem was I didn't
make any changes in my life,
right?
I didn't understand
cancer at the time,
and so I just kept
living my life the way
I was living it, which was
in a very unhealthy way.
And this pain got
worse and worse,
and eventually, I
went to a doctor,
and they thought I had an ulcer
and gave me some medication
that didn't help.
And then I-- threw a series
of doctors appointments,
eventually ended up at a
gastroenterologist, who
did a colonoscopy and found
a golf ball sized tumor
in my large intestine.
And I came out of the procedure,
they had put me under,
and I woke up, and I
was still medicated.
It was like where am I?
What's happening?
And the doctor came in,
and he basically said,
we found this tumor.
You might have cancer.
We have to send it to the lab.
And my wife started crying
on the nurse's shoulder,
and I was just like what?
What's going on?
I mean, I wasn't even--
>> You were that at that
time, how old were you?
>> I was 26.
>> 26-years-old.
>> And so at that moment,
I wasn't even sober.
So it didn't even
really make sense.
It just felt like a dream
that I didn't understand.
But a couple of days later, I
got the call from the doctor,
and he said, listen,
the lab report
came back, you
have colon cancer.
And so that was heavy.
And that's kind of when my
life came to a grinding halt.
They took out the
tumor, they took out
a bunch of lymph nodes.
The surgeon said, look, I took
out everything I could see.
We got clear margins,
but you're going
to need 9 to 12 months
of chemotherapy.
So they brought an oncologist
into my hospital room
to introduce me to
him, and I thought,
OK, well, this is my life
now, and I guess I have to--
I'm a cancer patient, and I
have to do what that entails.
But there were a few things that
happened in the hospital that
were very serendipitous
that really started
the wheels turning,
and one of them
was the first meal
that they served me.
>> And this is after
your operation?
>> After my operation.
>> Where they removed 18 inches.
>> Yes, they cut out 18
inches of my large intestine,
18 centimeters, a third, right?
And the first meal they
served me was a sloppy joe,
and I'm kind of famous
for the sloppy joe story
because it's the most
ridiculous food that you
could serve a sick person.
It's the best example of
the worst cafeteria food.
You know I mean?
What is the worst cafeteria
food you can think of?
It's a sloppy joe.
>> Right.
>> And that's what they gave
me, first meal after cutting
the abdomen open,
removing part of my guts.
And they set it in front
of me, and I was just
looking at it
going, this doesn't
seem like the best
thing for me right now.
>> Just innately you knew.
>> Yeah.
I mean, I wouldn't
even eat that--
I wouldn't want to
eat that any time, OK?
I'm never in the mood
for a sloppy joe,
and so not only was I not
really happy about that
as a food choice, but I just
thought, this is a hospital.
This is full of sick people.
Shouldn't we be feeding
them better than this like?
Shouldn't I be eating like
some applesauce or something?
At that time, I really didn't
know anything about nutrition,
but just my instincts, the
red flag kind of went up.
The next thing that
happened was the day
I was checking out
from the hospital,
the surgeon came
in to check on me.
And I said, hey, is there
anything I need to eat or avoid
or whatever?
Because I was a
little concerned.
I didn't want to
go home and like
eat something like some
Doritos and like screw it up.
And he was like, naw, just
don't lift anything heavier
than a beer.
>> That was the
nutritional advice you got?
>> Yep.
That was it.
I reluctantly agreed to
go see an oncologist.
And we're sitting in
the clinic in Memphis--
well, first of all, the
parking lot is packed.
Couldn't even get
a parking place,
and the waiting room is packed.
I sit down, I'm looking around,
and there's no one in there
even remotely near my age.
I'm 26, I've got long shaggy
hair, a handlebar mustache,
like rock dude, and I'm just
kind of checking it out.
Who else is in the cancer club?
It was me and a bunch of
seniors, senior citizens.
Not high school or
college seniors.
And I just thought, God,
I don't belong here.
The television was on and
out comes Jack LaLanne right
as I'm sitting in the
cancer clinic couch,
and he starts going off
about nutrition and fruits
and vegetables, and
the reason we're sick
is because we're all
eating junk food, right?
And if man made
it, don't eat it.
And I was like,
oh, man, he's just
speaking to me through
the television right now.
He's reaffirming
everything that I had just
started to understand.
And we go in to see
the oncologist finally,
you know, it's like you wait
in a waiting room for an hour,
and then they put you
in a smaller waiting
room for another hour, and then
you get in another little room.
Eventually, the
oncologist comes in,
and it was just very robotic.
You know, they see 20 patients,
30, 40 patients a day,
and he just comes in, and
he looked at my chart,
I'm sure for two minutes.
What's this guy got?
Comes in and gives me
the standard pitch.
He said, look, you know, you've
got stage 3 colon cancer.
With therapies, you have a 60%
chance of living five years.
And I thought--
>> At the age of 26, what
did you think of those odds?
>> Yeah.
I mean, I was not
impressed by those odds.
And I thought, gee, that's not
much better than a coin toss.
>> That's true.
50/50.
>> Not much.
And I asked him if there
were any alternative
therapies available, and he
said, no, there are none.
If you don't do
chemotherapy, you're insane.
>> He literally
said you're insane?
>> Yeah.
I asked him about
the raw food diet.
He said, no, you can't do that.
It will fight the chemo.
>> Why would it fight the chemo?
>> At the time, I was
like, what does that mean?
>> Well, later, I realized,
I found out that the raw food
died is a very aggressive
detoxification diet,
and when you're on
a raw food diet,
your body starts kicking
out chemotherapy.
And it doesn't do what
they want it to do.
It doesn't destroy your body,
and it doesn't do the damage
they want it to do,
and so they don't want
you to be on a raw food diet.
The other reason is is
because chemotherapy is also
very destructive on
your immune system
and bacteria that's normally
harmless on an apple,
let's say, could pose a
potential problem in your body
because your immune system
is so weak from chemo.
So they don't want
you to do raw food.
I was already on
the raw food diet.
I'd been on it for a week.
I was like hardcore.
I just adopted it, right?
I was excited about it.
I felt--
Going into the clinic, I felt
very confident about what
I was doing.
And everything
else he's told me,
everything else the
oncologist said to me
is really a blur,
because he really
scared me so bad that
I kind of shut down.
And I walked into
the clinic confident,
and I walked out terrified.
And I went to the desk,
and I made an appointment
to get a port put in
to start chemotherapy.
And my wife and I walked
out into the parking lot,
and we sat in her car, and
we held hands and we cried,
and we prayed, and we
were just terrified.
And I believe that
was on a Friday,
because I had a few
days before they were
supposed to put this port in.
I think it might have
been like a Monday
or Tuesday or something.
>> And when you say a port,
they're putting in a port
so they don't have to
inject you with chemo,
they can do is to put it
directly into the port each
time?
>> That's right.
They put a port in your chest.
It's basically a direct
line into your arteries
or whatever your
veins, arteries,
it's easier than giving you a--
>> IV.
>> Yeah.
It destroys your veins,
so port is a better way
to do it because chemotherapy
is so toxic that it destroys
your veins.
So, yeah, they just
scared me so bad
that I agreed to chemotherapy,
even though I had originally
decided not to.
But over that weekend, I kind
of came to my senses again,
and I thought about my life,
and I thought about this book,
and I thought
about Jack Lalanne,
and I thought about the weird
stuff the oncologist said
to me.
One other thing
he said, I forgot.
He said, in sort of the middle
of his pitch, he said, look,
man, he's like, look,
I'm not telling you this
because I need your business.
And I just thought why in
the world would you say that?
What does business
have to do with it?
And then it was, wait a
minute, this is a business.
This is his business.
He needs patients to make money.
>> And this is the same
oncologist who told you you
were insane if you
didn't do chemo.
>> That's right.
Same guy.
And it was like a Freudian slip.
You know what I mean?
Either that or it
was the push away,
which is a sales technique,
where you kind of give someone
like I don't really
need your business,
and that kind of makes them
want to do business with you.
You know what I mean?
But I thought about everything,
and I thought, you know what?
Nutrition makes
more sense to me.
I would rather
overdose on nutrition
and give my body
everything that it
can use to repair and regenerate
and detoxify and heal,
and trust God to lead
me in the process
than let someone who doesn't
even know me at all, probably
has already forgotten my name,
poison me and experiment on me
with a 60% chance of
living five years.
I found out later
that he was lying.
What he told me was
that I had a 60% chance
of living five years, but that's
the average for all cancer
patients.
So if you take every
cancer patient,
lump them in one group,
and average it out,
you get 60% of them make
it to the five year mark.
Doesn't mean they're
cancer free at five years,
it just means they
have a beating heart.
Some of them are
on life support.
not knock, knock,
knocking on heaven's door.
They are dying,
but they still are
counted as a success
toward five year survival.
Well, the odds for stage
3 colon cancer, stage 3C,
were about 30% make
it to five years.
And only 16% make it 10 years.
>> Wow.
>> So here I am, 10 years
without their therapies.
>> OK, so 10 years
out, and cancer free.
>> Yeah.
>> So you decided not
to do chemotherapy?
>> That's right.
>> So before you got
the port in, I assume?
>> I was a no show for the port.
After that, they sent
me a certified letter,
they were calling
my house, they were
after me to try to get
me to do chemotherapy.
And I just was avoiding their
calls, and like leave me alone.
I've made up my mind.
This is what I'm doing.
>> Did you ever talk to the
oncologist about the phony
statistics or the incorrect
statistics that he gave you?
Because clearly, that
was not accurate.
>> No, I never went back.
And I know why he did it.
He did it because he
knew the truth was
extremely discouraging.
You know, if he'd come
in and said, look,
with the therapies
we have available,
you've got about a 30%
chance of living five years,
I would have been out
the door in five seconds.
See ya.
But he told me 60%
because he thought, well,
you know maybe this
will sound better.
This will be more encouraging.
Maybe it'll give him
more hope, right?
It will make the treatment
sound more appealing, right?
60 is way better than 30,
so that's why he did it.
That's why he did it.
It's just basic economics.
They need a steady supply
of patients to make money,
and doctors aren't bad
people, but they're trained--
they go to med school,
and they have residency,
and it takes 15, 20
years for a doctor
to go through all the
training, and actually
go through enough practice
before they realize
that everything they've
been trained to do
doesn't really work, and
that most of their patients
end up dying.
And by that time, it's too
late to change careers,
and they're making a
high six figure income.
The average oncologist makes
almost $300,000 a year,
and yet, in a survey that just
came out about a month ago
on Medscape, 52% of
oncologists reported
that they were unsatisfied
with their income.
>> Wow.
And the average makes over 3--
>> $290,000 a year.
>> That's a lot of money.
>> That's a lot of money
to be unsatisfied about.
>> But it's not
enough apparently.
>> Guess it's not enough.
So from there, basically I
was totally trusting in God
to lead me at that
point, because it's like,
all right, everybody
thinks I'm crazy.
I'm alone.
I was very much alone.
>> So once you made the decision
to avoid chemo and to overdose
on nutrition, as you put
it, you told your family.
What was their reaction like?
>> Well, they weren't
comfortable with it.
They thought I was being
stubborn and hardheaded and
foolish.
My mom was a big
supporter of me.
My mom's always been
into health food.
She's always been sort
of a health junkie,
and so she was a huge, huge
ally for me at that time.
And I love my wife,
we're still married.
We've been together 18
years, but she was terrified.
>> Congratulations.
>> Thank you.
She didn't know what to do.
She didn't know how to
help me, and she really
thought I was making a mistake,
and a lot of other people
did too.
But I had to trust that
God was leading me,
that he had answered
my prayer, and if so,
that I could trust that that
was the route that would lead me
ultimately to health.
>> So I had very little support,
and I was very much alone
in the beginning.
But what's neat is my
mom had a bunch of books
about alternative
cancer therapy,
and a bunch of books
about health and stuff
written by Paul Bragg, and
all kinds of these just
great health books
that she had collected
over the years for
no real reason.
And as soon as I started
reading and researching
and found out about different
authors and books and health
leaders and experts, and I would
mention them to her she'd say,
oh, I have that book.
I'm like you've got this
library of books for me.
There was no other reason.
She was like saving them up
for me, and didn't realize it.
>> She was collecting them
for you over the years,
and didn't know what the
purpose was until now?
>> Yeah.
Yeah, and it was
stuff obviously--
she was interested in them,
but she had saved them all.
And so that was amazing I
just knew God was in control.
I knew he was working.
And so what did
my diet look like?
It was very simple, and I think
a hardcore nutritional approach
to cancer needs to be
very simple because there
are a lot of options out there.
It can get very complicated,
and a lot of people have--
they're seeing so many
different directions,
they don't even know where to
go, and they get paralyzed.
And so I realized, OK, what
is the most fundamental
foundational part of my healing
approach, and that's food.
I've got to get as much
nutrition in my body
as I can from the earth,
and so I started juicing,
and I drank about 64 ounces
of vegetable juice every day,
mostly carrot juice.
I ate giant salads full
of cruciferous and allium
vegetables.
That's broccoli, cauliflower,
kale, cabbage, onions, garlic,
peppers, just spinach,
all that good stuff.
>> Sounds good.
>> Yeah.
Just the amazing giant salad.
We shared one at
Jason's Deli recently.
>> Yeah.
>> Just a giant salad full of
like all this really amazing
food from the earth that
was put here for us,
and I ate that twice a day.
And then I would
make fruit smoothies
with a fresh
coconut and berries,
two cups of blueberries,
blackberries, raspberries,
strawberries.
Berries are very potent
anti-cancer fruits,
and that was it.
That was the daily diet,
and it was every day,
and I did that for 90 days.
There was a 100% raw
food for 90 days.
I was working with
a naturopath, and he
checked my blood work and my
urine and my hair samples,
and all kinds of stuff.
And he helped me
modify the diet.
He had me on
different supplements
that he thought would help
boost my immune system,
help deal with any
parasites, or help detoxify.
Just sort of
address those things
that are common to a
lot of cancer patients.
Cancer is the product
of a sick body.
You're sick-- you have
cancer, because you're sick.
Not the other way around.
>> So cancer is
really the symptom?
>> Cancer is the
symptom of a sick body.
And you cannot cut a tumor off
or shrink a tumor or poison
a tumor and expect to stay
well and stay healthy,
because you're not
addressing the real problem.
You're only addressing
the symptom.
And it's like cutting off your
nose to get rid of a cold.
It doesn't solve the
real underlying problem.
>> In 2008, when I was 26, we
had been married for almost
three months.
I was diagnosed with nodular
lymphocyte predominant
Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Stage 2.
I had a mass in my armpit
and another in my neck.
Yeah, it was definitely a
time where I was very afraid,
and after they gave us our
initial protocol that they were
going to suggest, which was six
rounds of chemo and radiation
to follow that, and they removed
the lymph node, the largest
one, which is about the size
of a lemon, from my armpit.
You did not have a
peace about that.
You want to tell that
part of the story?
>> Well, she went in and she
got the lymph node removed,
and it came back.
After it went to several
different hospitals,
because they couldn't
quite figure out what--
they knew it was cancer, but
they couldn't pinpoint exactly
what kind of cancer
it was, and so
after about three weeks of
waiting, and then hoping
that it was something else,
somehow something else.
It came back--
>> It was a very rare cancer,
and they weren't quite sure how
to treat it, because one
doctor said the extreme chemo,
another doctor said, well,
we might be able to give you
a monoclonal antibody
called ritoxin,
and see how you do first.
And then if it doesn't
respond, then maybe
we'll go towards the R
top chemo, which was what
the first doctor suggested.
>> Yes.
And see, of course,
being a newlywed family
and facing cancer, you're up
for the most nontoxic route
possible.
So for us, we were keeping
our fingers crossed
that there was some
sort of clinical trial
or some other option
that we could pursue.
And after it came back
positive for stage 2A?
B?
I can't even remember now.
>> A.
>> So we were given the
tour of the hospital,
we were in getting the
sort of the amenities
of the chemotherapy suite--
>> The wig shop.
>> Yeah.
This was all very quick.
>> The plush recliners,
and the view of the forest.
>> The upper level, sort of
penthouse view of the nice
forests of Atlanta.
>> But when you're walking
through that chemo room,
and there's these people
receiving their chemotherapy,
you don't see the forest and the
plush chairs and the personal
television.
>> You're having this sort
of out of body experience.
>> Yeah, you see these
sick, sick, sick people.
>> And people that just almost
look like a shell or a ghost
of themselves, and your
mind is just beside itself.
And in the midst
of all the chaos,
as we were going
through this room,
and again, this is only
what, our third appointment?
>> Yeah, something like that.
>> She was in front of me, and
we were both getting the tour,
and I just remember sitting
there just having this crazy,
this cannot be happening
to us, what are we going?
All this sort of
panicky thoughts,
like one moment at a time.
One breath at a time.
>> This is right after they had
told us about the 30% to 70%
chance of infertility
because of the R top.
>> That's important.
>> Which is in a very,
very harsh chemotherapy.
>> Well, our oncologist,
his residency, was it?
>> At MD Anderson.
>> Wasn't it MD Anderson?
That's why it's
called residency.
>> And they were
the ones to say--
>> Yeah, he had not had a lot
of experience with this type
of cancer, so he referred to his
colleagues back at MD Anderson,
and so the best recommendation
from one of the best cancer
hospitals in the world came
back, chemo, radiation,
surgery.
>> And because of that, they
gave us that 30% to 70% chance
giant window of infertility,
he actually referred us--
>> Your nails are going to--
your stomach is going to have
these issues, and by the way,
your ovaries will shut
down, but don't worry--
>> They may or may not.
Your fertility may
or may not return,
and they wanted to refer us
to a fertility specialist
to get eggs frozen or embryos
frozen, which we were like--
I mean, we were
getting all this,
we're trying to make
all these decisions.
We're newlyweds.
>> So in the midst
of all of that,
we were immediately whisked away
to the chemotherapy suite tour,
and I just remember this--
the best I can describe it
is, it's almost like a voice,
but it was Steven
Furtick describes it
as, if you've ever
heard the voice of God,
it doesn't sound like
a voice, and that I
know sounds totally crazy
when somebody hears that,
but this is the truth.
It was an unshakable impression
that came through my left ear
perpendicular to the
thoughts I was having,
this is what my mind
was doing, and then
the most calm, simplistic
statement came into my head
from this sort of 90
degrees offset, and said,
this is not for you.
>> We came home and
after calling relatives--
I cried the most over
and the only thing
I lost sleep about through
this whole ordeal was I
felt like I was mourning
the children I never had.
And I can't explain it,
except for those words.
There were these
children that I hadn't
had yet that I was, in my heart,
I knew I was supposed to have,
but I had this huge
barrier, and this huge wall.
And I kept-- everytime,
I'd say let's just go, make
the appointment.
And at that point, we
had the appointment
to get the port
put in, and I was
more afraid of the
treatment than I
was of the actual cancer.
>> I remember I found a video
online while researching
clinical trials, and of course,
I started at MD Anderson,
because they are supposed
to be the best, right?
So I found a video of the
director of clinical trials,
or the head--
the guy who's over.
I don't know if it was
the director or head
researcher or what, but
he was in charge of that.
His name was Dr.
Anas Younes, and he
was on video stating at the
end of one of these videos
about MD Anderson
and their trials,
he was at the end of it
talking in his office
about how he believes strongly
in clinical trials because he
believes in 10 years from
now, we're going to--
and this was in like 2006
they made this video,
but 10 years from
now, we're going
to regard chemotherapy as a
barbaric form of treatment.
Periodically, she would just
have these emotional outbursts
where she would just want to
do the chemo and want to--
>> Just get it out of me.
Just get it out.
I just want it out of me.
It's like a scene from aliens.
>> I just didn't
know any better.
I thought it was
just this one place.
Cancer's only here.
>> This cancer's inside of her.
Just going to get it out.
>> Yeah, just get it out of me.
>> That was not--
>> It's not the reality.
>> That's not reality.
It's not an option, and being
highly sensitive as it is,
Courtney's the sweetest
person in the world,
and so now she's
got this cancer.
Her emotions are running
high, I'm like buckling down.
She's going more into
the emotional state,
and I'm going more into
the I'm going to be the--
>> Protector.
>> And save her.
>> Yeah, and just do my part to
logically make sure this does--
anyway.
So I just remember those
were some really hard times,
and family didn't
understand, and we
were trying to come up quickly
with answers to the questions
that we didn't know.
>> Why are you not already
going through treatment?
It's been three weeks, or it's
been four weeks, or it's been--
eventually became six weeks,
and on and on from there.
The real turning
point for me was
one day I got home and
Bill Henderson's book
arrived at the
door, and I actually
started fishing through it.
It's called "Cancer Free,
Your Guide to Gentle Nontoxic
Healing."
It just made sense to me.
It was just like a meant
to be kind of thing,
because it was simply written.
It was in simple terms, and
he also lays out a protocol.
And I actually read through it
in probably two or three days,
and I decided that I
was going to give it--
I think I decided three months.
I'll give this three months,
and I'm going to try it,
and I'm going to go hardcore.
And if anyone knows me,
I go hardcore on things
that I put my mind to
and I accomplish it.
Whether it's running,
or natural childbirth,
or a cancer treatment,
whether it's eating.
And it was a huge change
for me, because Diet Coke
and Cheez-its, I'm not joking.
I didn't eat salads.
I didn't eat vegetables.
Bill recommended a completely
organic raw vegan diet
with the Budwig protocol,
which is the cottage
cheese, flaxseed oil, and quite
a few supplements, betaglucan
and vitamin C and
green tea extract
and a complete multi-vitamin.
That was more pills than I ever
took in probably my whole life.
It just seemed like
every day, I was
taken I think 26 supplements
in the morning and 16 at lunch
and 26 at night.
It was just crazy how
much I ended up taking.
>> And we were
going to a local--
>> Essiac tea.
>> Yep, Essiac tea.
And we were going
to a local practice
here that is has almost like
an alternative or integrated
approach to treatments
for different things,
including cancer, and we were
seeing a doctor there who spent
an hour and a half with us.
And it was in the
lobby of that office
that we found a "Natural
Awakenings" magazine, which
led us to a raw and
living foods institute
here in Atlanta called The
Living Foods institute.
And we went there and did
a 12-day detox program,
and learned a lot.
>> Met a lot of people who
were on a similar belief.
>> Met a lot of people, and
it was one of those blessings
along the way for us.
And in the aisles
of Whole Foods,
where we had begun
shopping exclusively
for nutrient dense foods and
organic foods and so forth,
we would meet people whose
stories would just come out
as we were talking to them
in the aisle about having
their brother, their cousin,
that cured themself of stomach
cancer or whatever form
of cancer, et cetera.
And it was just
like God kept just
giving us these
reassurances along the way
that we were doing
the right thing,
and that we were going to be OK.
>> About four months after
I started my protocol,
my anti-cancer protocol, I
found out I was pregnant,
and I felt honestly a little
irresponsible because--
>> It was a big deal.
>> Cancer and pregnancy
don't really blend.
>> We'd just sort of gotten our
minds wrapped around this whole
situation with cancer, and now
we found out were pregnant.
And it was one of those things
of having peace in the chaos.
I mean, it was
just like, OK, here
is this situation we were
told we wouldn't get to be in
or to enjoy and now here it is.
>> And so after the
morning sickness,
that was very
challenging, passed,
I really saved 100%
on my protocol--
>> With the addition
of some crackers.
of lots of saltines.
I lived for about
three or four weeks
on organic saltines,
almond butter, and apples,
because I just couldn't
hold anything else down.
But on May 4th, it was
exactly six months--
I was diagnosed
on November-- or I
started my alternative
protocol on November 4th,
and on May 4th, I
found out that I
was in clinical remission
from the cancer.
And five months later
or six months later,
our daughter was born
perfectly healthy,
and eats better than any
child I know, because that's
all she's known is vegetables
and more vegetables
and juice and smoothies.
And here we are
five years later,
we've actually had
another daughter.
She's a year old now,
so we're very blessed,
and I just want to shout to
the rooftops that this should
definitely be part
of anybody's--
just to consider and
to research into.
There are other options besides
chemotherapy and radiation.
And you have to go or
you find that peace,
and don't act out of fear.
>> So I'm here in New York City
at Mangia Organics restaurant
with my friend Jason Vale.
Jason, it is a pleasure to
finally meet you face to face.
We've done interviews.
I think you'll be
me to be honest.
>> Your wrist has
got to be like that.
>> He's the arm
wrestling champion.
>> That's good.
>> But I'm not going
to arm wrestle you,
because you'll
probably flip me over.
>> You're blushing.
>> Yeah, I'm embarrassed, man,
because you probably would
knock me off.
But anyway, Jason
and I have never
met before, but when interviewed
on the radio several times,
and I'm so excited
to interview tonight
because this is
the reason that I
got involved with
alternative cancer research
almost 20 years ago when my
dad was diagnosed with cancer.
The first thing that I did
was to do some research
and I found Jason's video.
He was on a show called "Extra,"
and they interviewed him
on the show about
the protocol you
used to cure your own cancer.
So what I want to do is just
get your story tonight, man.
Talk about being diagnosed
and the treatments
that you used, and then
eventually the time that you
spent in jail.
So, Jason, take it
away, my friend.
>> Please, interject whenever
you want to keep me on track
or whatever.
But when I was 18 years old--
actually, no, when I was
15 years old, honest truth.
I felt a pain in my back.
Later on when we
did research, we
saw that everybody that
had my type of cancer,
which was called
the Askin's tumor,
it started at 15 years old.
Like there was only like
15 people diagnosed.
So at 15, I remember,
I had smoked pot.
Excuse me.
But this is a New York thing
at the handball courts.
And I remember
going home and being
real sensitive to my body, and
I felt something in my neck.
I actually said, I'll
never forget the word.
I said, Lord, if
this is a tumor,
please don't let it come out
now, because my life, 15,
you're in ninth grade, it's
like your life is like--
you feel great.
You're the best.
And then nothing happened,
and at 18 years old,
I remember when I got
really sick at 18 years old.
Actually, I was
in a lot of pain.
I was playing hanbdall,
that was my thing, handball.
Everyday, eight hours a day,
six hours a day, excuse me.
And hitting that ball,
I'd come home at night,
and I couldn't lay down anymore.
I had to actually sit
up when I was sleeping.
Or my mother would just my
back, and that was the only
that that gave me any relief.
We didn't know what it was,
and I was coughing some.
I
Went to camp.
I actually had to leave camp
from like upstate New York,
I had to leave in
the middle of--
in the middle of
the sleepaway camp.
And I had a x-ray done, and
they said you have pneumonia.
Now, I don't know if you know,
but when you have pneumonia,
your whole lung is white,
and that's what it.
It was white.
And if you have a tumor in
your lung, the tumor is white.
So they don't see
this huge tumor, which
was actually a grapefruit size.
So about two months later,
I still have pneumonia,
and the doctor, my personal
doctor, Mr. Rabinowitz, said,
listen, I'm going to put him
in for exploratory surgery,
because this is not going away.
I went in for
exploratory surgery,
they thought I might
have had emphyhema,
emphyhema is like
a pus pocket that's
om the outside of the lung,
which caused pneumonia
to stay an extra few
months, and they have
to kind of go and get that out.
And you got a chest tube, and
all that stuff, so any way,
they operated on me.
And I woke up 8 hours
later, because it
wasn't a normal operation.
When they went in,
they found a tumor
the size of a grapefruit,
a connecting tumor
the size of a lemon next to it.
And when I woke up,
they told me that,
and I didn't realize
the seriousness of it
because I didn't really
realize anything.
And my mother and father, they
have to get a pathology report,
and we're going to know in
a week or two if it's cancer
or not.
And I wasn't even thinking
along those lines yet.
So it turns out that I'm
sitting still in the hospital,
and they came back with the
diagnosis that it was cancer.
And it was a very,
very rare cancer.
It was a very deadly cancer.
Everybody had died
from it in one year.
>> Less than 20 people in
the world had that cancer.
>> Had a diagnosis.
Right.
There's probably much more than
that, but not on the books.
So we're in the hospital,
they were really nervous.
My mother my father, like I said
on the "Inside Edition, Extra"
show, they were at
the foot of the bed,
and they were like
just about crying.
I felt very confident,
and I was brought up--
not that I was
brought up so much
in the church, which
I was, but I really
had a deep relationship.
I was praying every day.
Halloween, we didn't
go trick or treating.
We actually had a 24 hour prayer
meeting night with the kids.
And so I just told them,
listen, there's reason for this.
I told my mother
and my father, and I
believe it's going to be OK.
So over that year, after I
got out of the hospital at 18,
my father took me to
the medical library
and it's a good thing
he did, because we
saw that everybody that
had this type of tumor,
did either chemo or radiation.
Never the chemo and
radiation, but they
did either chemo or
radiation, and they still
died within like six months.
One person lived
like eight years.
Other than that, everybody
had died right away,
and they all had the
tumor originally at 15,
16 when it came out originally.
Now there's more cases of
it, but back then that's
all that was there.
So I said, well, I'm not going
to do chemo or radiation.
There's no way I'm going to do
this, because everybody died.
So I just went right back,
got my hockey equipment out,
and just went right back
to playing hockey again,
and literally 12 months
later to the day about,
I was in tremendous pain again.
I went and got a CAT
scan, and by that time,
I knew how to read
CAT scans because--
not that I knew how to
read it so much, except I
knew that in this spot
if there's any white,
you have a tumor.
>> That's not good.
>> I knew that.
So I went in the other room
after they did the CAT scan,
and normally, they
don't let you--
the technicians, they don't
give you any diagnosis.
They're not allowed to.
They get in trouble.
They don't really let
you look at the stuff,
but they let me look.
I begged them.
I said, listen, please.
This is my life,
my body, and I want
to know before I get a call.
Who wants to get a call
from the hospital saying,
oh, we have news.
Please.
So anyway.
Yeah, it was there.
I saw it.
Same length tumor, same
like the other time.
It was just as big.
>> Within a year?
>> Within a year.
It was big, it was huge.
It was very aggressive.
It wasn't like just
starting out or anything.
>> And by this time you
were how old, 18 or so?
>> I'm 19 now.
>> 19.
>> I already have the pit once.
They did the thoracotomy on me.
They took it out,
and now it came back.
And this time, I remember
I was getting pretty sick.
I was at home.
I was actually laying on
my mother and father's bed.
They were sleeping on the
couch, and I couldn't walk.
I didn't know it, but the
tumor had a tumor and then,
remember before I said
there was a lemon piece?
Well, it was a tumor
and then like this trail
that went over to my spine.
It ate all my spine,
and it was just
about to eat my spinal column.
And I couldn't hardly walk.
I was having a hard time.
Actually, I was
stepping before I
hit the ground, and my
mother said, don't worry,
we have an
appointment next week.
My father immediately
called the hospital,
and said we have to come in now.
Because of my
father, I can walk.
My mother was listening
to what they said.
My father just
steamrolled right over,
and said we have to get
him to the hospital now.
So that's what we did.
We went to the
hospital, and they
said, listen, we're
not going to do it now,
because it's like 12
o'clock at night, whatever,
and we're going to have a
fresh team in the morning,
and we're going to operate
on you in the morning.
So morning comes,
and all I remember
from that day is that
they laid me down
on the bed, Dr.
Karsgrove, Dr. Beatty,
this was Sloan-Kettering and
Beth Israel, and Dr. Bergland.
He was the nerve
doctor that was going
to take over when they
got to the cancer that
was near the spine.
And Dr. Beatty was
the chest doctor.
He was going to take
it out from there.
Dr. Karsgrove turned out
to be a friend to this day,
I'm a good friend to his.
He was like an intern at the
time, a resident, whatever.
So they told me, OK, count
back from 10, and by the time
you get to 1, you're
going to be asleep.
So I remember saying let
me play a trick on them,
I said, hey, 10,
9, 8, and I went
like this, and the whole
team you heard them
just starting to get
their stuff together,
and about three seconds
later, I went, just kidding.
To this day, they all
say that that really
brightened the whole attitude
of the operating room.
I'm aware, and another
second, I was out cold.
They told me afterwards,
that really gave them
a good outlook.
Because they don't like
seeing an 18-year-old kid
with a deadly uncurable
cancer in his body.
So anyway, they did
an amazing operation,
and so forth, and at that
time, I said to them,
I didn't know better.
I didn't know.
I still don't know to
this day what did what.
But I do know, I
said to them, listen,
if I'm going to do any of
this chemo or radiation,
everybody died with
their chemo, everybody
died withe their radiation.
And I was strong.
I felt I was strong as
an ox, even though I
had the cancer the year before.
I said let me do the
chemo and the radiation,
so they gave me the most
poison you can possibly
take in the world without
dying, and I almost did die.
That's when I stopped
doing the chemo.
Five years later, they found
something in my-- might
have been six years, they
found something in my kidney.
And I think the
size of it was 3.5
when they found it originally.
I think I was going in for a
scan every like year or so.
First it was every six months,
then it was every year.
And then they found
something that
was 3.5 centimeters
in my kidney,
and they said it parallels
renal cell carcinoma.
I said, I don't want
to get a biopsy,
because if you get a biopsy
of it, you gotta open it up--
>> Spread it.
Spread the cancer.
Right.
I mean, doctors say that.
Do other people say that?
>> Sure.
>> Biopsies.
>> Many doctors that we've
interviewed said the same
thing.
>> Good.
The needle aspiration, when
they pull the needle out,
it can pull--
I don't know.
Some doctors believe that,
some doctors actually
don't believe it.
But so over the years, I could
never get someone that would--
then I started wanting
to get a biopsy.
Because I wanted to know
for sure if it was cancer.
Because at this point, is when
I found about the apricot seeds.
It seemed like the
tumor kept shrinking.
Every time we went to
the doctors, we saw it--
the first time I went, it only
went down from 3.5 to 3.2,
and I was discouraged.
But kidney cancers can
be very slow growing,
or slow shrinking also.
So I didn't let it
discourage me much,
but every time I went, it was
going down a little bit more,
3.5 2.8, 2.5, 2.0.
>> All of while you were
eating the apricot seeds?
>> While eating the seeds, yes.
Well, I was like 26 or
27, I was arm wrestling.
I was starting to become
New York state champion,
and I was US champion
at one point.
I was the world
champion at one point.
But before I was the world
champion, the show "Extra,"
they called me up, and they
wanted to do an interview,
and I said, sure.
I'll do an interview,
because they
saw that this guy is very good
arm wrestler also had cancer,
and beat the worst cancer.
>> That's good fodder for TV.
>> Right.
They came over, we did the
interview, and the next thing
you know, they were calling
me up saying, listen, Jason,
we have hundreds and hundreds
of people calling the show.
They want to know
your phone number,
they want to know how they
can get in touch with you,
talk to you, blah, blah, blah.
Is it OK if we give
your phone number out?
I said, sure, get
my phone number out.
So immediately, people
started calling me,
and I put together
a business package.
I found where to get the
seeds, which I currently
find like a place that had
find 5 or 10 pounds at a time.
Like the video says,
"World without Cancer,"
about this whole thing
that's going on--
>> I still remember it.
It was a videotape that I
got, "World Without Cancer."
>> You wanted it?
>> Yeah.
>> Right.
All the people, the health
food stores in the past,
you know the FDA would
break the windows,
shut the stores down because
they had these seeds.
So to this day, a lot
of health food stores--
or to that day, when I'm
talking about when I was 36.
I'm 46 now.
They didn't carry them, so I
couldn't find them anywhere.
If I did find some, it was like
an underground Chinese health
food in the city that had
like five pounds in the back
somewhere.
>> Right.
>> So anyway, I got the
seeds, and I made some--
I got a duplicating machine,
and I put the seeds--
for like $50, I sold
the seeds and a DVD.
It was probably
cheaper than that.
The seeds were only like $15.
Anyway, I put it together, and
I got a credit card account,
and threw up a quick web
site, and I just started
selling tons of these things.
And I would tell
these persons, now,
listen, I don't want to
be-- if this isn't true,
I don't want to be touting
something that's not true.
Call me back if there's
any success stories.
I started getting calls
immediately of people saying,
listen, I had a
tumor on my skin.
It shrunk down.
Or I had a tumor on my
arm, and it got bigger.
It swelled up and
then it shrunk down.
It started itching.
I got every story in the book,
and I asked the people, look,
can I put your phone
number at the website?
Can I put your email
address on the website,
because people
don't believe this.
So they said, OK.
So the FTC sends me a letter,
and they spelled my name wrong.
So I should have stuck with
them, but I said, listen,
I don't know who
you're talking about.
There's no name at this address.
So we went back and forth, and
they sent the letter saying,
you got proof of this
happening, proof about it?
Show me the proof.
>> So saying that you're making
unapproved claims for curing?
>> When they kicked
it over to the FDA,
and the FDA started saying
that, so at that point,
they had my right
name, right address.
I just had a
lawyer, Mr. Dilling,
and I don't know if he's
alive to this this day,
but Mr. Dilling
was in the middle
of this fight 40 years ago when
this whole thing was going on.
And he told me, listen, we just
have to change the labeling,
and so forth, which I did, and
then the FDA said, no good.
And then we changed it again.
The FDA kept saying no
good, no good, no good.
To everything we did,
they kept saying no good.
Then I realized
that there's nothing
we can do to make this right.
>> It's a stacked deck.
>> It sure was, and that's when
they got a temporary injunction
against me, and the
injunction was not to sell--
the whole crux of it was, they
said you can't sell seeds--
At first, they said you
can't sell them as a cure.
You can't sell them
according to the FDA law.
Which only means I can't
sell them as a cure.
>> Right.
>> Doesn't mean I
can't sell them period.
Because then I can't
own a grocery store.
>> You can't say that
they cure anything.
>> Right.
In the end of them
adjusting and marking things
out and redacting things
from the injunction,
it read a lot more to say,
you can't sell seeds period.
This is when I said, you can't
tell me I can't sell seeds.
You can't tell me I
can't sell apples,
because that has the
same thing in it.
And they stuck to that, and the
judge, it was a stacked trial.
Actually, they had a permanent
injunction against me,
and they said, I violated both.
But I was saying, listen, you've
got to prove that I sold them
as a cure, which I stopped.
I didn't do that anymore.
I told people--
I gave the FDA
warning at the bottom,
and I also told people it
was third party information.
I just never told people
it's going to cure you.
I would never say that to
people, even if it does.
So I had a trial basically.
During the initial
hearing, I left.
I actually was on my way
with a bunch of friends,
we were all dressed
up, and I just--
I'm not kidding.
This sounds weird.
A flock of birds--
like I was headed this
way, a flock of birds
came like right over
the car going this way.
And I was like, I'm sorry, I'm
not superstitious like that,
but I was like, I am not going.
I was like, this has
got to be a sign.
I'm not going.
Anyway, I left.
I went to my other
pal for three months.
They were looking for me, and
I was talking to the marshals,
and finally, I turned myself in.
And it was a million
dollar bail they gave me.
>> A million dollars?
>> Yeah.
>> $883,000.
I almost won the trial.
I actually was pro-se,
where my lawyer
who was telling me, oh,
I'll get you eight years.
What do you mean, you'll
get me eight years?
This is contempt of court.
Contempt of court is like
a six month thing the most,
if you're guilty.
I wasn't even guilty
and they're saying.
So it was a trial, but there
was no statutory maximum
and no middle.
So it was a very--
you know, they were saying
you could get 20 years,
and I said, listen, if
I'm going to go to prison.
It's going to be I'm
doing my own trial then.
So I kicked them
out, and the judge
wouldn't let them
completely get off.
the judge made them
sit at the table.
I'll never forget
the one question
I asked that the lawyer
jumped up on my side,
and said, don't
ask that question.
And I was going to ask--
the FDA agent was on the witness
stand, and I was redirecting,
and I was doing my cross
examination, excuse me.
And the question was, did you
have like 40 or 50 complaints
about me?
And the lawyer got
up, and said, hold on.
Wait.
Time out.
We're talking, don't
ask that question.
I said, listen, I'm asking this
question because I was going
to come down to the end
saying, did you ever get
a complaint against me?
So I made him sit
down, and I said
did you have 30
or 40 complaints?
He said, no.
Did you have 20 to 30?
Did you have 10?
Did you have 5?
Did you ever have 1 complaint
about me with the seeds
about me defrauding people?
And he had to say no, and
i have those transcripts
at the website actually.
We had him actually admit
no, so why was I on trial?
What's the point?
Nobody was injured.
There has to be an injured
party for there to be a trial.
This shouldn't even
be a civil thing.
Anyway, it was a
big kangaroo court.
It was a big farce.
At that point, he said right
away, you're in contempt.
You have to show me
why you should not
be held in contempt by the
end of this day or else
they were going to detain
me anyway that day.
I was guilty that day.
And that was it.
They held me from that day.
I didn't come out for
five years from that day.
>> Five years?
>> Five years.
4 years, 11 months.
>> County jail?
Where'd you go?
>> I went to NBC, I think.
It was not county,
this was federal.
>> Federal prison?
>> Oh,yeah.
>> So you did five years,
and you then you got it.
Was it 2008 you
got out of prison?
>> 2008.
Yeah.
>> Well, Jason, I want to thank
you for sharing your story with
us tonight, and I just want
to thank you personally.
This mini series, "The
Truth About Cancer,"
would not be happening
it wasn't for you.
Because you were
the first person
that woke me up to natural
cancer treatments back in 1996.
A long time ago.
>> Six?
>> 18 years ago.
>> 1996 it was?
>> It was 1996 that I saw--
>> It started in '94.
>> I think in '94 is maybe
when you filmed the show.
'96 was when my dad
died, and that's
when I first saw the video.
So I just want to
thank you personally,
and this wouldn't have
even happened without you.
>> Everybody mentions you.
So many people that called up
my company, they all say, Ty.
I mean, I wish there
was a way I could--
I mean, I owe you a lot too,
because a lot of people--
they owe you a lot too, because
a lot of people read your book.
The way you marketed it,
a lot of people read it,
and they got better.
They got better.
They lived an extra 5, 10
years, which all counts.
>> Yeah, with quality of life.
But, hey, we're all
in the same fight.
We're all here to
spread the truth
and to spread
knowledge about this,
so it's my honor to
interview tonight, man.
>> Thanks, bro.
>> And we'll arm wrestle in
a second, but off camera.
>> Yeah, sure.
>> Wow, you know, I
don't know about you,
but I'm a little bit happy
and I'm sad at the same time.
I'm going to miss
this every night,
but I'm happy that
we've been able to share
this information with you.
And we've been able to
share these cancer survivor
and thriver
testimonials with you.
I tell you, one of the things
that's interesting about this
is that you heard
in the last episode
about the medical doctors
that treated their own cancer,
but what we heard tonight are
actual cancer patients that
aren't doctors.
They don't have that
medical education.
But they were
diagnosed with cancer,
and then, potentially they
went in for treatment,
and the oncologist said you've
got to do chemo, radiation
and surgery and just something
about that didn't resonate
with them, and they listened
to that inner voice that said,
this is not the way for me.
And so that's really
encouraging to me.
And that's really
impressive to me
that these people that are
not doctors, that probably
had a lot of pressure
from family and friends
to go the traditional route
of chemo, radiation, surgery,
but they opted for
something else.
That's just impressive
to me that they
had that intestinal
fortitude to do that,
and to step outside the box, and
to do what they felt was right.
And they're alive today, so that
you could hear their stories.
So what a great show.
It's been a great series, folks.
I really am so
thankful for all of you
out there that have been
watching and listening
and supporting our cause.
You know, over the
last 11 days, we've
learned about the history of
the American Medical Association
and the suppressed treatments,
and genetically modified foods,
and toxins in vaccines, all
these things that compromise
our immune system,
which is our first line
of defense against disease.
We've learned
about foods that we
can eat to fortify that
immune system, and which
foods to stay away from,
and which foods to eat.
We've learned about
the treatments
for cancer, the natural
treatments for cancer.
We've learned about how
to detoxify the body.
I tell you what, at
this point, if you've
been paying attention
over the last 11 days,
you probably got
a better education
on how your body works,
how to achieve true health,
than 99% of the
people out there,
including a lot of
medical doctors.
So thank you for tuning
in to the "The Quest,
The Cure Continues."
I really hope that
you've benefited from it.
I hope that you've shared it
with your friends and family,
and I hope that you live a
healthy and long life because
of it.
It's been our privilege to
spend this time with you
over these last couple of weeks,
and we wish you all the best.
May god bless each
and every one of you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The beautiful thing is
when they're at the point,
they're losing their life,
and they turn around,
they get better, and all of
a sudden they either have
their life back, or they even
have a better life afterwards.
It's wonderful.
This whole natural medicine
thing is pretty cool.
I mean, that's like being the
coach of the winning team,
you know?
They won the championship.
That's what it feels like.
I mean, that's really--
I don't know how else
to describe that.
So that's what that feels like.
You won.
They won, but through
them, you won, you know?
You were the coach.
The team won.
I have patients that were given
as little as six weeks left.
Hospice had been called in.
They were getting all
their affairs in order.
Really bad situations,
and they have responded,
have turned around.
Many of these cases, here
we are 10 years later,
and they've won.
Cancer is a thing in
the past for them.
They're better.
They've maintained their health.
They're in good health.
They keep falling the
healthy principles
that they have to follow
in order to be healthy,
and some of these people
are starting families.
Some of these people
are able to spend time
with their grandchildren.
Other people are
rebirthed their businesses
and they're flourishing,
and they're doing very well.
And for me, every
one of them, it's
like my team won
the championship.
It's the most awesome,
awesome, awesome feeling
when somebody and
you actually get
to participate and be
the guide to help someone
go from a death
sentence to living
a whole life, a healthy
life, a good life.
I can't think of anything
more rewarding that that.
It's just amazing.
>> Humanly speaking, you
look at this and think,
what is the hope in this?
You've lost so many people.
Not only the mother
and the father
and all these grandparents,
cousin, uncle, all these people
in a pretty short span of time.
Six months after we were
married, one after the other,
what is the hope?
Well, the first one
was Ty's father,
and when he was in the
hospital, he never complained.
He knew where his hope was.
He knew where he was going,
and he was a good man.
A good man, just like
when you look at Ty,
that's who his father was.
Just a good, good man.
Well, God was really working
in my heart as well as
Ty's during the time that his
father was ill, showing us
that the things that
we were pursuing,
that so many people in the
world pursue, are transient.
They're temporary.
And one day, they'll be gone.
Just gone, and we saw that
Ty's father was living for what
really mattered, for eternity.
And I was sharing these things.
There was so much more, but
I was sharing these things
with Ty's father.
He's a big, tall, strong
man, beautiful smile.
We're walking
around the hospital,
he's getting his exercise
hooked up to all these machines.
and he looks down at
me after I tell him
how God is really
using him in my life
and in my heart for good.
And he just smiled that
brilliant smile he has,
that you see In Ty, and said,
if that's all that God does
is work in your
heart with my cancer,
then it's all worth it for you.
If he could only see
today all of the lives
that have been spared,
all of the souls
that are still here
enjoying their families,
and their families
enjoying them,
he just couldn't believe it.
Maybe he knows in heaven.
I don't know.
But he said it was
worth it for me,
and look at all the lives that
we have been able to touch just
simply by bringing
this information
into the mainstream.
It's criminal that
this information has
been hidden from the
mainstream media,
the information flow
has been blocked.
And so that's why we feel
it is a matter of life
and death, this message.
The truth about cancer
has got to be known.
There are people out
there today that are alive
and cancer free because
of this information.
And it's a joy.
It's the purpose for which God
placed us here on this Earth,
and Ty's parents, those precious
souls, we'll see them again.
We know that.
There's a lot of other
families enjoying
their family members, their
fathers or their mothers,
because of this information.
So when we hear about
cancers, hear the word cancer,
that's what we think.
We just live to help people.
I mean, this is just a
passion that we both have,
and it's a joy.
We desire to help
others not to have
to suffer as we saw
his father suffer,
and as we had to suffer
when we said goodbye.
That was very difficult, and
our lives were forever changed.
>> Why is that?
>> Because they were so
loving, and these children are
so sweet.
We take turns sometimes we say,
oh, if they we're only here.
If they we're only here, they
would be beating down our door
to get to these children.
That's still difficult.
We still both
have a difficult time with that.
And we have to remind each
other that there is purpose.
There is a reason, and we
get to tell the children
the wonderful stories
that I'm telling you now
about their amazing
grandparents.
And they miss them.
They say all the time
how they miss them,
as if they know them.
So that is a consolation
to be able to give them
these beautiful
stories, to have it
written in a book and many
articles and interviews.
They do have a connection,
so that's a consolation.
And it's also a
consolation that others
get to have grandparents.
That's a blessing.
You know not having our parents,
grandparents for our children,
and we get into moments.
Like today, the amazing filming,
the beautiful pictures they
you got of Ty with the children
in our family, of course,
we think, wow, if Grammy
could only see this.
Ty's parents.
They're not here, and who knows
what they can see in heaven.
We don't know that.
We like to think that there
may be some glimpses, something
that-- they'll probably
know more than we do.
But we don't know.
We don't have that
physical connection,
but, yes, there are
families out there
that because of this
information have
been able to see their
grandchildren grow up,
or will be able to see
their grandchildren grow up,
or their children,
or their parents,
whatever the case may be.
For us, it was parents
and grandparents.
"The Quest for
the Cure," and now
of "The Cure for the Cure
Continues," is reaching so
many people.
So many people are able to
wake up to a beautiful truth
that cancer does not have
to be a death sentence.
So all of our suffering--
>> It's worth it.
And that's what Dad told me.